README.md, before:

# vite-plugin-remix-routes

Use [Remix](https://github.com/remix-run/remix) routing in your [Vite](https://github.com/vitejs/vite) project.

## Plugin config

```js
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import react from "@vitejs/plugin-react";
import remixRoutes from "vite-plugin-remix-routes";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react(), remixRoutes()],
});
```

**With options:**

```js
remixRoutes({
  /* options here */
});
```

## Options

### appDir

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `string`
- **Default**: `path.join(process.cwd(), "src")`

An absolute path to the folder containing the `routes` folder.
This will most likely be your `/src` folder.

### importMode

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `(route: Route) => "async" | "sync"`
- **Default**: `() => "sync"`

A function that receives a `Route` to determine if the route's component should be imported synchronously or asynchronously.

### is404Route

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `(route: Route) => boolean`
- **Default**: `(route) => route.id.endsWith("/404")`

A function that receives a `Route` to determine if it should be a 404 route. (`path="*"`)

By default this matches all routes whose id's end with `/404`.

A route's `id` is the component path without extension.

## Usage

```js
import routes from "virtual:remix-routes";
```

**Example:**

```jsx
import { render } from "react-dom";
import { BrowserRouter, useRoutes } from "react-router-dom";
import routes from "virtual:remix-routes";

function App() {
  const element = useRoutes(routes);

  return <>{element}</>;
}

render(
  <BrowserRouter>
    <App />
  </BrowserRouter>,
  document.querySelector("#app")
);
```

## Async nested routes

When you configure routes to be imported asynchronously with the `importMode` option, it is important to note that this can create a request waterfall.

Lets say we land on the nested route `/one/two/three`.

React will first render (and load) the component for `one`, then `two` and at last `three` in series.\
Each component needs to be loaded and rendered before the next one is loaded.

This is not ideal so you can use the `EagerLoader` component exported by `vite-plugin-remix-routes/client` to immediately load all the components that will be needed for the current route.

**Example:**

```jsx
import { render } from "react-dom";
import { BrowserRouter, useRoutes } from "react-router-dom";
import { EagerLoader } from "vite-plugin-remix-routes/client";
import routes from "virtual:remix-routes";

function App() {
  const element = useRoutes(routes);

  return (
    <>
      <EagerLoader routes={routes} />
      {element}
    </>
  );
}

render(
  <BrowserRouter>
    <App />
  </BrowserRouter>,
  document.querySelector("#app")
);
```

Note that if you don't render an `<Outlet />` in one of the parent components, this will still load the subcomponent(s), even though React will not render it and would not have loaded it.\
But in that case, you probably don't want a nested route anyway.

<details>
<summary>How does this work?</summary>

[This is the code](https://github.com/vjee/vite-plugin-remix-routes/blob/main/lib/client/eager-loader.ts) for `EagerLoader`.
It gets the current location with the `useLocation` hook and gets all the matching routes for that location with `matchRoutes`.
Then we loop over each of the matching routes and call it's `loader` method.

This `loader` method is added to async routes by `vite-plugin-remix-routes` and looks like this: `loader: () => import("./path/to/route/component")`.

This will start the download of the route component. When React tries to render it later on, it is already loaded or it reuses the pending request if it hasn't finished yet.

</details>
<br />

More info about `useRoutes` can be found here:

- https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/api#useroutes
- https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/examples/route-objects

## TypeScript

If you use TypeScript you can add the following to your `vite-env.d.ts` file.\
This will add types for the `virtual:remix-routes` module.

```ts
/// <reference types="vite-plugin-remix-routes/virtual" />
```

## Similar projects

### vite-plugin-pages

This project is inspired by [`vite-plugin-pages`](https://github.com/hannoeru/vite-plugin-pages)
that can be used with both Vue and React.

`vite-plugin-remix-routes` is different in that it utilizes [`remix`](https://github.com/remix-run/remix) to generate the routes array instead of using a custom convention.\
As the name suggests, it also only works with React.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/vjee/vite-plugin-remix-routes/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add `appDirectory`, `routes`, and `ignoredRouteFiles` (#2)

README.md, after:

# vite-plugin-remix-routes

Use [Remix](https://github.com/remix-run/remix) routing in your [Vite](https://github.com/vitejs/vite) project.

## Plugin config

```js
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import react from "@vitejs/plugin-react";
import remixRoutes from "vite-plugin-remix-routes";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react(), remixRoutes()],
});
```

**With options:**

```js
remixRoutes({
  /* options here */
});
```

## Options

### appDirectory

https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#appdirectory

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `string`
- **Default**: `path.join(process.cwd(), "app")`

An absolute path to the folder containing the `routes` folder.

### importMode

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `(route: Route) => "async" | "sync"`
- **Default**: `() => "sync"`

A function that receives a `Route` to determine if the route's component should be imported synchronously or asynchronously.

### is404Route

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `(route: Route) => boolean`
- **Default**: `(route) => route.id.endsWith("/404")`

A function that receives a `Route` to determine if it should be a 404 route. (`path="*"`)

By default this matches all routes whose id's end with `/404`.

A route's `id` is the component path without extension.

### routes

https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#routes

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `(defineRoutes: DefineRoutesFunction) => Promise<ReturnType<DefineRoutesFunction>>`

A function for defining custom routes, in addition to those already defined using the filesystem convention in app/routes. Both sets of routes will be merged.

### ignoredRouteFiles

- **Optional**
- **Type**: `string[]`

https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#ignoredroutefiles

This is an array of globs (via minimatch) that Remix will match to files while reading your app/routes directory. If a file matches, it will be ignored rather that treated like a route module. This is useful for ignoring dotfiles (like .DS_Store files) or CSS/test files you wish to colocate.

## Usage

```js
import routes from "virtual:remix-routes";
```

**Example:**

```jsx
import { render } from "react-dom";
import { BrowserRouter, useRoutes } from "react-router-dom";
import routes from "virtual:remix-routes";

function App() {
  const element = useRoutes(routes);

  return <>{element}</>;
}

render(
  <BrowserRouter>
    <App />
  </BrowserRouter>,
  document.querySelector("#app")
);
```

## Async nested routes

When you configure routes to be imported asynchronously with the `importMode` option, it is important to note that this can create a request waterfall.

Lets say we land on the nested route `/one/two/three`.

React will first render (and load) the component for `one`, then `two` and at last `three` in series.\
Each component needs to be loaded and rendered before the next one is loaded.

This is not ideal so you can use the `EagerLoader` component exported by `vite-plugin-remix-routes/client` to immediately load all the components that will be needed for the current route.

**Example:**

```jsx
import { render } from "react-dom";
import { BrowserRouter, useRoutes } from "react-router-dom";
import { EagerLoader } from "vite-plugin-remix-routes/client";
import routes from "virtual:remix-routes";

function App() {
  const element = useRoutes(routes);

  return (
    <>
      <EagerLoader routes={routes} />
      {element}
    </>
  );
}

render(
  <BrowserRouter>
    <App />
  </BrowserRouter>,
  document.querySelector("#app")
);
```

Note that if you don't render an `<Outlet />` in one of the parent components, this will still load the subcomponent(s), even though React will not render it and would not have loaded it.\
But in that case, you probably don't want a nested route anyway.

<details>
<summary>How does this work?</summary>

[This is the code](https://github.com/vjee/vite-plugin-remix-routes/blob/main/lib/client/eager-loader.ts) for `EagerLoader`.
It gets the current location with the `useLocation` hook and gets all the matching routes for that location with `matchRoutes`.
Then we loop over each of the matching routes and call it's `loader` method.

This `loader` method is added to async routes by `vite-plugin-remix-routes` and looks like this: `loader: () => import("./path/to/route/component")`.

This will start the download of the route component. When React tries to render it later on, it is already loaded or it reuses the pending request if it hasn't finished yet.

</details>
<br />

More info about `useRoutes` can be found here:

- https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/api#useroutes
- https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/examples/route-objects

## TypeScript

If you use TypeScript you can add the following to your `vite-env.d.ts` file.\
This will add types for the `virtual:remix-routes` module.

```ts
/// <reference types="vite-plugin-remix-routes/virtual" />
```

## Similar projects

### vite-plugin-pages

This project is inspired by [`vite-plugin-pages`](https://github.com/hannoeru/vite-plugin-pages)
that can be used with both Vue and React.

`vite-plugin-remix-routes` is different in that it utilizes [`remix`](https://github.com/remix-run/remix) to generate the routes array instead of using a custom convention.\
As the name suggests, it also only works with React.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/vjee/vite-plugin-remix-routes/blob/main/LICENSE)
